+++
title = 'Resilient Composition for Fault-Tolerant Cloud Applications'
date = 2026-02-03T10:00:00-05:00
eventTime = 2026-02-04T12:45:00-05:00
speaker = 'Tianyu Li (the University of Wisconsin-Madison)'
location = "SEC 2.122 & 2.123"
summary = "As cloud programming grows complex, new abstractions are vital for building correct, simple and efficient applications. Tianyu Li will introduce Resilient Composition, a method that ensures fault tolerance for applications built from distributed components."
draft = false
+++

## Abstract

As the cloud evolves in capability, it has also become increasingly complex and difficult to program. New abstractions are necessary to ensure next-generation cloud applications are correct, simple, and efficient. In this talk, I will describe Resilient Composition, a new abstraction that ensures fault-tolerance in applications composed from independent, distributed components. The key insight is to rely on atomic, fault-tolerant "steps" that span component operations and messages. I will present DARQ, an efficient execution engine for such steps, and Distributed Speculative Execution, a transparent optimization that dramatically reduces the overhead of Resilient Composition. Together, these solutions represent an important step toward a more declarative cloud, where strong primitives separate user applications from their underlying infrastructure.

## Bio

Tianyu Li is an incoming Assistant Professor at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. His research interests span distributed systems and database systems, with an emphasis on cloud-native applications. His current work focuses on designing the next generation of cloud runtime that will allow for flexibility and scalability without sacrificing fault-tolerance or performance. Previously, Tianyu obtained his PhD from MIT, and his BS/MS from CMU.
